---
title: "A Trip to Istanbul"
description: "A trip to Istanbul for engagement ceremony of my brother"
date: "12/31/2024"
draft: false
---

# <center> Introduction </center>

I went to Istanbul on November 19 for Irish visa application and
engagement ceremony of my brother. In this blog post I will be covering
the engagement part. We have stayed there for a week and returned on
November 23.

# <center> Part 1: Travelling to Istanbul </center>

I went to Istanbul with my parents' car. While we were on the road, we
have stopped at a shop near by the road. The
[shop](https://iydb.adalet.gov.tr/Home/SayfaDetay/soke-isyurtlari-satis-magazasi)
has a middle-sized building with a sign displaying the name. The shop
was selling products made by the prisoners. The products where very
cheap and the quality was near at other shops' level. At the shop the
products vary from foods like nuts to clothing such as underwear and
jackets. I bought a leather jacket from there and a prayer bead made
from natural stones. Both totally cost around 2000 ₺, which the jacket
will just cost 2000 ₺ at other stores. Next, we have stopped at service
area to eat roasted lamb. The taste was good but the size of portions
wasn't enough. After the service area we continued to Istanbul non-stop
for 4 hours.

# <center> Part 2: Arriving to our hotel </center>

We have stayed at [The Place Suits
Ataşehir](https://maps.app.goo.gl/VFcMtE8U4HK9aLms8). The hotel consists
of suits with 1+1 or 1+2 configuration. We have reserved 2 suits with
1+1 configuration. I have stayed with my brother, and it was so good. At
the suits you have a living room, kitchen (for kitchen equipment such as
pan, you need to contact with the receptionist) and bedroom. The hotel
does not provide breakfast by default, so we stuffed our mini fridge
with some cheese, acuka (a chili tomato paste), olives and bread. The
breakfast was not the best one in my life, but I had the most enjoyment
with it.

# <center> Part 3: Engagement Ceremonies </center>

We went to Istanbul for the engagement of my brother. The engagement
took place in the bride's house. In Turkey there is a tradition that the
groom's side comes to bride's house with chocolate and bouquet. So first
we went to a chocolate shop. At the chocolate shop we purchased a hole
tray of chocolates with aluminum packaging. Next, we went to a florist.
Traditionally the bouquet must only contain red roses, but my brother
didn't like how it looked so we ended up buying a mixed bouquet. We went
to bride's house and the ceremony has started. First, they served us a
small cup of Turkish coffee. Again, there is also a tradition that the
family members of bride (specifically the sister) adds some salt to the
coffee of groom. If the groom finishes the coffee without any hesitation
and complains then he passes the test and shows that he is ready for the
engagement. After the coffees the main part started. The elder ones in
the community asked consent of the bride's father on this engagement.
The bride's father had given consent, we started to chat. At the end of
the ceremony, we have invited the bride's side to a breakfast next day.
At the breakfast, the elder ones have talked about upcoming wedding.
